Internal Sponsorships

External Sponsorships



The fee is charged on Semester basis and it becomes due two weeks earlier than the start of a semester at the time of course registration.

Fees are paid in the bank through bank challan available in Accounts Office/Flex.

All fees are non-refundable (except security deposit) and also the University reserves the right to review the fee structure from time to time. Any revision of fees would be uniformly applicable to all students of the University.

FAST, being a non-profit organization, charges subsidized fees from all its students. Realizing that even the subsidized fee may not be affordable for some of its students. FAST tries to arrange need-based financial assistance in the form of loan for such indigent students. This assistance is subject to renewal every semester in the light of the student's academic performance and financial need. The financial assistance is limited to tuition fees only and is discontinued if the student's CGPA falls below 2.00 for undergraduate degree and 2.5 for graduate degree.

The repayment of loan starts three months after graduation or getting a job, whichever is earlier. The total amount has to be repaid within a period of four years after graduation. Students are required to sign to this effect.

All those who are admitted and are in real need of financial assistance should apply on the prescribed Financial Aid form. A notice to this effect will be posted on the notice board.

Merit scholarship is awarded to the
                            Top Three position holders of each
                            Examination Board.Scholarship is also offered to top three
                            position holders in the NU admission
                            merit list of each campus.Students awarded merit Scholarship,
                            100% tuition fee for 8 regular
                            semesters must maintain a CGPA of ≥
                            3.00 in each semester.

Awarded as per provincial laws and regulation.Sindh Government Endowment Board
                            ScholarshipsPunjab Educational Endowment Fund
                            (PEEF) ScholarshipsBaluchistan Government Endowment
                            Board Scholarship

Realizing that the fees may not be affordable for some of its students, FAST arranges financial assistance in the form of interest-free, need-based study loans for bright indigent students.This assistance is subject to renewal every semester in light of the student’s academic performance. Financial assistance is limited to tuition fee only and is discontinued if the student’s CGPA falls below the minimum specified to avoid warning. Loan recipients MUST take full load of courses offered.

The Higher Education Commission
                    (HEC) provides liberal scholarships to
                    students desirous of studying for MS and
                    PhD degrees at this university. The
                    scholarship covers tuition fee, monthly
                    stipend, and book allowance.

Internal sponsorships are available for
    Studying in regular semesters (spring
    and Fall). Following is the maximum number of semesters for which it can
    be availed.Bachelors8 semestersMasters4 semestersPhD6 semestersIt shall not be available for repeat or
    withdrawn course. This implies that it
    is available for studying a course only
    once.It is suspended if the student’s CGPA
    falls below the minimum specified to
    avoid warning and shall be restored
    upon getting out of warning by
    improvement in CGPA.It shall be, limited to tuition fee only.

OSAF (Old Students Association of
                            FAST) arranges financial assistance for
                            those students who cannot afford to pay their full fee.

FAST Alumni of North America provide
                            funds for financial assistance for students
                            who cannot afford to pay their full fee.

Ihsan Trust financial assistance for
                            students who cannot afford to pay their
                            full fee.

In addition to the above scholarships there
                            are various community-based
                            scholarships offered by various
                            committees and foundations such as,
                            Memon Community Scholarships, Bohra
                            Community Scholarships, Agha Khan
                            Foundation Scholarships, Ihsan Trust
                            Sponsorship, General Refaqat Memorial
                            Scholarship, etc.

FAST-House

Rohtas Road, G-9/4

Islamabad - 44000

| Bachelors | 8 semesters |
| Masters | 4 semesters |
| PhD | 6 semesters |